Add procedures to manage DEB content (#787)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_adding-custom-deb-repositories.adoc

[id="Adding_Custom_DEB_Repositories_{context}"]
= Adding {customdebtitle} Repositories

Use this procedure to add {customdeb} repositories in {Project}.
To use the CLI instead of the {ProjectWebUI}, see the xref:cli-adding-custom-deb-repositories[].

.Procedure
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Content* > *Products* and select the product that you want to use, and then click *New Repository*.
. In the *Name* field, enter a name for the repository.
{Project} automatically completes the *Label* field based on what you have entered for *Name*.
. Optional: In the *Description* field, enter a description for the repository.
. From the *Type* list, select `deb` as type of repository.
. In the *Upstream URL* field, enter the URL of the external repository to use as a source.
You can find the upstream URLs on Debian-based systems in `/etc/apt/sources.list`.
. Optional: In the *Releases* field, set a or multiple releases.
+
For official Debian repositories, {Team} recommends setting a _codename_ in the *Releases* field, for example `buster` for Debian 10 or `bullseye` for Debian 11.

> Do not use `stable` or `testing` as they merely reference a currently corresponding _codename_.

Reviewer: I don't understand what you're trying to say here if I am honest.

Author: So Debian Bullseye is always Debian 11;  but Debian stable is currrently Debian 11, but will be Debian 12 with the next release.

Reworded.

This helps to avoid drastic changes once a new Debian version is released and the reference is changed.

> {Team} recommends creating one repository in {Project} per release to keep things tidy and avoid potential performance and network issues during synchronization.

Reviewer: We had a conversation about recommends before. 
I realise that it is hard for you to follow these conventions if others don't. Ideally, we would just say
```suggestion
To keep things easy to manage and to avoid potential performance and network issues during synchronization, create one repository in {Project}.
```

Author: Applied.

For official Ubuntu repositories, use the Ubuntu suite, for example `focal` or `focal-updates`.
. Optional: In the *Components* field, enter a component.
This indicates the licensing terms of the software packages.
+
In Debian, it is divided into `main`, `contrib`, and `non-free`.
For official Debian or Ubuntu repositories, {Team} recommends leaving this field empty to synchronize all available components.
Note that some third party Debian repositories use the components in ways that may require setting an explicit selection.
+
[CAUTION]
====

> Ensure to enter both *Releases* and *Components* exactly as they would be in an `/etc/apt/sources.list` file.

Reviewer: This sounds quite strange to be honest.
```suggestion
Ensure that you enter both *Releases* and *Components* exactly as they would be in an `/etc/apt/sources.list` file.
```
What do you mean by would be? We generally avoid would/should/could.

Author: Applied and reworded ~would be~ to are.

====
. Optional: In the *Architectures* field, enter one or multiple architectures to limit the synchronization of packages to a subset of the available architectures.
Leave this field empty to synchronize all available architectures.
ifdef::orcharhino[]
. Optional: In the *Errata URL* field, enter the URL of an errata service.
endif::[]
. Select the *Verify SSL* check box if you want to verify that the upstream repository's SSL certificates are signed by a trusted CA.
. In the *Upstream Username* field, enter the user name for the upstream repository if required for authentication.
Clear this field if the repository does not require authentication.
. In the *Upstream Password* field, enter the corresponding password for the upstream repository.
Clear this field if the repository does not require authentication.
. Ensure to select the *Mirror on Sync* check box.
This ensures that the content that is no longer part of the upstream repository is removed during synchronization.
. Optional: In the *HTTP Proxy Policy* field, select an HTTP proxy.
. Optional: If you want, you can clear the *Publish via HTTP* check box to disable this repository from publishing through HTTP.

> . Optional: From the *GPG Key* list, select the GPG key if you wish to verify the signatures of the `Release` files associated with the Debian repository.

Reviewer: Best to keep wishes for birthday candles.
```suggestion
. Optional: From the *GPG Key* list, select the GPG key if you want to verify the signatures of the `Release` files associated with the Debian repository.
```

Author: 🕯️

. Optional: From the *SSL CA Cert* list, select a SSL CA certificate to verify the upstream repository's SSL certificates.

> . Optional: From the *SSL Client Cert* list, select an SSL client certificate to authenticate yourself against the external repository.

Reviewer: Who is "yourself" ?

Author: Replaced with the instruction from the custom file repositories procedure.

> . Optional: From the *SSL Client Key* list, select an SSL client key to authenticate yourself against the external repository.

Reviewer: Again here, when I think of "myself", I rarely imagine myself being authenticated with an SSL client key.

Author: Replaced.
